welcome to show me the curry calm and
the nutria and I'm hippo and today we're
going to show you how to make two bodies
it's an integral part of any Indian meal
and here's what you'll need whole wheat
flour one-and-a-half cups salt quarter
teaspoon or to taste oil three teaspoons
water approximately 1/2 cup okay we're
going to make the dough now we're going
to add our flour to a bowl sprinkle the
salt and this is optional in case you
know you don't use salt that's fine
to incorporate it well then we'll pour
oil inside now you want to mix the flour
again to make sure all the oil is
incorporated into the flour and you
don't want lumps of oil in there just
for a few seconds okay
oil and salt is nicely incorporated so
we're going to add water slowly this
water has been warmed in the microwave
for about 30 seconds we're in a little
at a time and just mix
and have a what kind of whole wheat
flour is it the one from the regular
grocery store no actually this is a
power from the Indian store it's a
little different from the whole wheat
flour that you find in the grocery
stores the one in the American grocery
stores usually is a lot darker in color
so it's about to turn a little browner
than you probably like them this one is
available in any Indian store it's
called chapati akka ATT a and readily
available and just mix all that dough in
and form like nice ball
Wow it really it doesn't take a lot of
time at all a lot of people are scared
to do this because you're using your
hands and the freaks people help but
it's really not that bad I mean
literally it takes under a minute to
make the stone okay the dough is in a
nice ball so we're going to take just a
couple of drops of oil just to lightly
coat it and that way it doesn't form a
dry skin on top of the dough okay so the
dough is nicely coated with just a few
drops of oil and we're going to keep it
covered for about 15 to 20 minutes so if
you're not comfortable using your hands
while making the dope here's another
alternative way of doing it here is the
Holy flour I'm going to use the food
processor and if you notice I'm using a
chopping blade and setup for dough blade
because it just mixes better and it gets
all the edges and there's nothing left
of the sides and then mix in the salt at
this point and I'm going to give it a
mix
and then I'm going to add in the oil ok
I've also heated up the water for 30
seconds and I'm going to pour it in very
slowly once I have the food processor on
all right wow that was easy
yes let's start okay I would just give
it one knead by hand just to incorporate
everything make sure there's no air
bubbles and all in it
this food processor option is really
good if you're making going bulk because
I understand that dough freezes really
well right right and I always do that
I'd do the whole 20 pound bag and keep
it and just stick on one one you know
ball at a time and just use it every day
and with something to put a couple of
drops of oil and just smother it a
little bit of it a little bit so that it
doesn't dry out and cover it up set it
aside for 15 minutes before I use it all
right otta has been resting for about 15
to 20 minutes and we're going to need it
one time quickly so how many toboggans
does this mater well this is one and a
half cups of dry flour
it makes approximately 90 puppies so
there's no science involved you know if
you like really big chapatis it can be
less or if you want small ones you know
it'll make more but something that fits
into your palm a closed fist that's I
don't know this goal size yeah about a
gulfside maybe a little bit too bigger
than a golf size okay so just divide it
out before we start rolling out our
chapatis we'll go ahead and turn on our
stove and get our tan even this is
called a Baba you can also use the
nonstick friend right if you if you just
don't have this er cannot find it then a
nonstick also works and what heats have
you put on the suit this is about medium
a little bit higher than medium okay and
you want to make sure your pan is really
hot before you put your first chapati on
alright while our pan is heating we're
going to take our dough and form a nice
round ball if you start off with a round
ball chances are your final chapati will
probably be round also we're going to
dip it in some dry flour shake off the
excess and roll it out now this rolling
pin is my favourite it's a thinner
version but a lot of people are used to
the thicker
versus rolling pins whatever you have is
absolutely fine and if you notice that
your chapati is sticking to the ground
or you know whatever surface you're
rolling it out on take it and dip it
again in the dry flour well you make it
look so easy this is really easy but the
key is it takes a lot of practice and
you know when you first start chances
are your two parties will not be around
and that's perfectly okay they're still
going to taste great the more you do
this the better chances you have of
getting a prettier final product and
this is a trick that my mom taught me
about is learning how to do this when I
was little you rub your hand across it
and instantly you'll feel where it's
thicker and where it's thinner and then
you can just roll the parts that are
thicker that way you don't have it too
cocky which is really thin on one side
and really thick on the other side that
also helps it in blowing up when you're
cooking it alright that looks hot so
we're going to put our roll chapatti and
kind of move it around too to make sure
it doesn't stick and we leave it alone
until we start seeing bubbles appearing
so we're going to flip it around then go
for a few seconds now we're going to
take some oil and you can just dip your
spoon into your oil and then whatever is
left for Mainer remainder a few drops
just put it on and smear it on like that
you flip it around
you want to press where it bubbles to
force the air into the other side which
is not risen a Samaritan boil again and
press you want to cook the chapati until
you see that all the dough eNOS is gone
and it looks fully cooked and it's okay
to have little brown spots on it this is
very very old Ricky Bobby there's really
no replacement you can buy these from
the store but when you taste these like
fresh off the squirrel it's awesome and
one of the other reasons a lot of people
don't use oil in their to parties but I
put oil inside the dough and what
happens with that is that when you eat
the chapati a little bit later on it
still tastes nice and soft as opposed to
the dough which has been prepared
without oil it turns to 10 you tend to
turn a little bit chewier right once
your body is cooked I like to keep it in
a nice insulated canister like this it
helps it to stay nice and warm so you
can finish all your chapatis and then
sit with your family and enjoy your
dinner and they'll still be piping hot
so there we have it fresh homemade to
Bobby's so join us again on another
episode of show me are you calm and in a
pinch of spice to your life